# Treasury and Staking

## Aave Treasury

The Aave treasury focuses on ecosystem growth and earns fees from transactions, staking, and liquidations. The fees collected from the markets, and revenue generated by the Aave protocol are saved in the community treasury. The tokens are then put back into the Aave protocol to generate yield.

The treasury consists of two components:

- **Ecosystem Reserve**: Holds the incentive reserve of AAVE and makes up the majority of the Aave’s Treasury assets. This component manages the distribution to the Safety Incentives, Ecosystem Incentives and the overall ecosystem. It was created as part of the LEND token migration in 2020. Initially, the Ecosystem Reserve received 3 million of the 16 million total AAVE tokens issued for protocol incentives.
- **Market Collectors**: Collector contracts are deployed on each network and hold only aTokens. The ecosystem collects a share of the interest paid by borrowers, as defined by the Reserve Factor, generally 10-35% of the interest rates based on the [risks]([https://docs.aave.com/risk/asset-risk/risk-parameters#reserve-factor](https://docs.aave.com/risk/asset-risk/risk-parameters#reserve-factor)) of the underlying asset. There are four sources of treasury income that is accumulated:
    - **Reserve Factor**: A percentage of protocol interest which goes to the Aave Ecosystem Reserve. Each Aave market has a collector contract which stores the revenue from the Reserve Factor.
    - **Flashloan fees**: A percentage of the flash borrowed amount, configured on the Pool contract.
    - **Bridge fees**: A percentage fee applied when bridges re-back assets, configured on the Pool contract.
    - **Liquidation fees**: A percentage of the liquidation bonus, configured on a per asset basis, transferred directly to treasury. The liquidation factor directs a share of the liquidation penalty to a collector contract from the ecosystem treasury.

The liquidity collected in aTokens has been compounding interest in the ecosystem collector contracts. It adds up to the Treasury which also includes the AAVE Ecosystem Reserve which usually finances ecosystem spendings such as liquidity mining or the Grants DAO. You can track how the treasury is doing [here]([https://dune.xyz/llama/Aave-Treasury-Finances-by-Llama](https://dune.xyz/llama/Aave-Treasury-Finances-by-Llama)).

The protocol fees go to the [collector contracts]([https://github.com/aave/aave-v3-periphery/tree/master/contracts/treasury](https://github.com/aave/aave-v3-periphery/tree/master/contracts/treasury)) that are controlled by the AAVE holders:

- The fees collected are stored in the **Collector.sol** contract. The functions in this contract allow funds to be moved in and out of the system.
- The **CollectorController.sol** contract allows the governance to control the **Collector** and to manage the treasury. It allows the **Collector** to approve functions, such as transferring tokens. This contract has been created because the **Collector** is proxied, therefore a controller is needed for the same entity to both control and upgrade the contract.

In Aave V3, revenue isn't minted to the treasury directly. To save gas, the revenue accrues on the Pool contract in the `accruedToTreasury` field, and is only sent to the treasury by calling `mintToTreasury`.

## Staking

An AAVE or ABPT [Aave Balancer Pool Token](https://pools.balancer.exchange/#/pool/0xc697051d1c6296c24ae3bcef39aca743861d9a81/about) holder can stake their AAVE or ABPT in the Safety Module to enhance protocol solvency and earn Safety Incentives. The **Safety Module** is the component in charge of shielding the protocol from insolvency, protecting the liquidity providers from risks resulting in loss of funds, such as liquidation and smart contract risk.

Upon the occurrence of a shortfall event, up to 30% of the token holder’s stake can be slashed to cover the deficit, providing an additional risk mitigation mechanism for the protocol. The staking interest comes directly from distributing tokens in the ecosystem reserve. 

The staking option is only available on Ethereum Mainnet. Learn more about staking risks [here](https://docs.aave.com/faq/migration-and-staking).

A portion of the total amount of interest collected by the protocol (denominated in various different assets) is distributed to AAVE stakers. The stakers receive their rewards denominated only in AAVE.

## Governance

The treasury is entirely controlled by Aave Governance. Any rewards or usage of collector funds requires a governance voting by the token holders.
